_Draft_ _Notes_

**Notes of the Meeting of the** **CONUL Digitisation Group**

**Tuesday** **14th **May** **2013,** **11.00 –** **1.00 p.m.**

**Henry Jones Room, TCD**

**Present:**	Caleb Dervan (UL) (Chair), Arlene Healy (TCD), John B. Howard, (UCD), Colette McKenna (UCC), Meadhbh Murphy (RCSI), Eoghan Ó Carragáin (NLI), Crónán Ó Doibhlin (UCC), Petra Schnabel (RIA), Deirdre Wildy (QUB). 

**Apologies:** Peter Corrigan (NUIG), Yvonne Desmond (DIT), Ann Wrigley (DIT).

		**1. Introductions:**  Following introductions C. McKenna gave the context for the forming of the “Digitisation” Group following from the mini-Colloquium and the Report of the CONUL Task & Finish Group on Digital Content Services.

It is noted that the work of the group may have some overlaps with other CONUL groups as identified in the Digital Content Services Report.

The following items are also noted:

1. **Reporting**

The Group is to present to CONUL an annual statement of achievements each October.  The group will work to a 3 year work-plan reporting annually

2. **Deputy Chair**

John Howard will act as Deputy Chair.

3. **CONUL Administrator**

Additional administrative support may be available on a limited basis.

4. **Budget**

A limited budget may also be available from CONUL.

**2. **Terms of Reference**

It was agreed that the title “Digital Infrastructure and Services” would better reflect the specific work of the Group.

I was also agreed to adopt initially the following Terms of Reference derived from the Digital Service Working Group Report with regard to “Digital Infrastructure and Services”:

**Terms of reference**

•	Identify and develop major issues and strategic priorities

•	Identify and develop opportunities for cooperation and collaboration among CONUL libraries

•	Identify and develop key relationships outside of CONUL

•	To continue to identify affinities to or overlap with other CONUL groups’ areas of enquiry

•	To continue to identify an appropriate structure for CONUL to address the topic in the longer 	term

•	To identify and track work already underway, existing infrastructures and digitisation 	resources, pertinent expertise, policies, etc., as well as additional relevant issues

•	To consider a range of issues relevant to Open Access, including needs, benefits, costs, 		future directions, potential for further development of value-added services, etc.

There was some additional discussion on the following themes:

A. **Open Access**

Noting the launch of the National Principles for Open Access Policy Statement [http://dri.ie/sites/default/files/files/National%20Principles%20on%20Open%20Access%20Policy%20Statement%20(FINAL%2023%20Oct%202012%20).pdf](http://dri.ie/sites/default/files/files/National%20Principles%20on%20Open%20Access%20Policy%20Statement%20(FINAL%2023%20Oct%202012%20).pdf) .  There was also discussion of the broader emergence of OA compliance.

B. **Training**

Noting the possibility of availing of programmes via the DRI, ANLTC, and DigCurv.

C. **Conference/Forum**

The urgent need for an annual library professional conference or forum within the sector was noted.

D. **An audit on Digitisation Services**

An audit is required of Digitisation Services, infrastructure, resources, policy etc. based on the DRI survey for _Digital Archiving in Ireland_ [http://dri.ie/sites/default/files/files/Digital_Archiving_In_Ireland_2012.pdf](http://dri.ie/sites/default/files/files/Digital_Archiving_In_Ireland_2012.pdf) 

**3. **Actions for the next meeting**

(i)	Begin preparations for an audit of Digitisation Services, infrastructure, resources, policy etc. within CONUL Libraries.

(ii)	Begin the drafting of the 3yr Work-plan, noting that a report is to be submitted in October.

(iii) Each member should have a short “Lightening Talk” on prepared to update colleagues on current activity underway in each CONUL Library. This will form a short part of each Group meeting.

1. Further thoughts or proposals on a conference or Forum should be collated.
2. Specific training provided or that could be provided by DRI, ANTLC or other groups should be identified. The Group should have some role in the co-ordination of training. Also any additional training memberships that may be appropriate to the group or CONUL Libraries in this area should be identified.
3. The Chair will arrange for a Google Docs forum to be set up for the group.

 

**Next Meeting:	**11.00** **–** **1.00 p.m.,** **Tuesday** **24th **June** **2013, henry Jones Room, TCD**

CÓD

23.05.2013