_Draft Notes_

Notes of the Meeting of the Conul Digitisation Group Monday, 16th September, 2013, 11.00-1.00p.m. Henry Jones room, TCD.

Present: Caleb Dervan (UL) (Chair), Arlene Healy (TCD), Peter Corrigan (NUIG), Yvonne Desmond (DIT)

Apologies: Cronan O Dobhlin (UCC), Eogan O Carragain (NLI), John B. Howard (UCD), Ann Wrigley (DIT), Petra Schnabel (RIA)

1. Minutes of the previous meeting

2. Apologies

3. Lightening Talks

One lighting talk took place given by Peter Corrigan describing Digital Services provided by NUI Galway (presentation attached). Peter provided an overview of how NUI Galway had approached the provision of digital services, describing their activity in the early days as “ad hoc “and “opportunistic”. However the service was re-launched in 2009 and now has a strategic focus. 

4. Review of Survey Questions/Discussion

It was felt by the group that Survey One concerned with equipment was more straightforward and that Survey 2 dealing with Management issues required more thought and input from the larger group. 

It was agreed that for both surveys an Institutional response (as in one response per institution) would be beneficial. This will require different departments and categories of Staff to produce a response by consensus. There is an obligation on members of the Conul group to encourage this co-operation in their own institution.

It was also felt that there was ambivalence about who was being targeted in Survey Two. Is it the IR managers or the managers of Digital Services? Perhaps it would be necessary to have people identify their area of interest at the start of the survey, comments from the larger group welcome.

There is a need for a short piece of explanatory text at the start of each survey. Caleb and Arlene agreed to provide this. 

It was agreed that the Survey One was in good shape and once it had the explanatory text it could be sent out. Arlene agreed to put the questions into Survey Monkey and have it available by the 30 September (it will be circulated in advance to the Group). This means that Survey One could be signed off at the next meeting in October.

The Group will work on Survey Two with the intention of having it ready for the meeting in November. If members of the group have comments, please forward them to Caleb who will amalgamate them into the survey.

The intention is to have both surveys issued by Christmas as they will provide the requisite facts for formulating strategy in this area.

5	Discussion on ORCHID/Datacite postponed to the next meeting.

6	Caleb will report to Conul in October basing his report on the fact finding aspect of the surveys. He will bring a draft of the report to the next meeting.

7	AOB

	The dates for the next 3 meetings are as follows;

	14th October, 2013		National Library

	11th November, 2013		TCD

	9th December, 2013		TCD

The Group are mindful that there is an added burden on members who have to travel to Dublin for the meetings. It has been suggested that Videoconferencing might alleviate this. Please indicate to Caleb if you are interested in using such a facility.

Next Meeting: 11.00-1.00p.m, Monday, 14th October, 2013, TCD (room to be confirmed)