# Minutes of the Meeting of the Conul Digital Infrastructure and Services Sub-Committee, 24th of July, 2015 at 11:30, National Library of Ireland

**Present:** Eoghan Ó Carragáin (**EOC**), NLI; Peter Clarke (**P. Clarke**), UCD; Val Payne (**VP**), NUIM; Arlene Healy (**AH**), TCD; Caleb Dervan (**CD**), UL;

Apologies:  Crónán Ó Doibhlin (**COD**), UCC; Deirdre Wildy (**DW**), QUB; Peter Corrigan (**P. Corrigan**), NUIG.

## 1. Minutes of previous meeting

Minutes were approved

## 2. Apologies & Matters Arising

Noted

## 3. Training 2016

Following from the October discussion, the intention is to put a course together drawing on expertise within CONUL libraries. AH updated the group that she had discussed the posibility with Tim O'Keefe at TCD who has given similar courses in the past and is willing to contribute again. The group agreed the need to compile a proposed syllabus before identifying and approaching other instructors.

**Action:** **CD** to follow up with **COD** regarding a proposed syllabus.

## 4. Survey analysis & HEANET Lightening Talk
**P. Clarke**, **AH**, **EOC** had a conference call for an initial discussion of how content from the digital repository survey could be used for a Lightening Talk presentation at HEANET to be given by **P. Clarke**. **P. Clarke** has carried out more in-depth analysis of the results with the HEANET audience in mind, and has  prepared the Lightening Talk presentation due to be delivered on Thursday, 12th of November.

In terms of publishing the full results of the survey, having reviewed what was said to participants when the survey was circulated, we need to contact respondents again before publishing.

 **Action:** **EOC** to individually email respondents with their responses to confirm they are happy for their answers to be published.

## 5. Open Repositories 2016 participation
The Group discussed possibilities for participation at the Open Repositories confernce due to take place in TCD in 2016 http://or2016.net/, including additional presentations and/or chairing a session focusing on consortial collaboration at national level. **AH** had spoken to Dermot Frost one of the organisers and suggested she and **EOC** meet him informally.


## 6. AOB
