# Minutes of the Meeting of the Conul Digital Infrastructure and Services Sub-Committee, 14th of January, 2016 at 14:00, National Library of Ireland & Conference Call

**Present:** Eoghan Ó Carragáin (**EOC**), NLI;  Val Payne (**VP**), NUIM; Arlene Healy (**AH**), TCD; Caleb Dervan (**CD**), UL; Crónán Ó Doibhlin (**COD**), UCC; Peter Corrigan (**P. Corrigan**), NUIG.

Apologies:   Deirdre Wildy (**DW**), QUB; Peter Clarke (**P. Clarke**), UCD;

## 1. Minutes of previous meeting

Minutes were approved

## 2. Apologies

Noted

## 3. Change of Group Chair

**EOC** updated the group that he would be stepping down as chair as a consequence of leaving his post at the NLI. As vice-chair, **AH** will organise the next meeting, but is not in a position to take on the role of chair at this time. **EOC** asked the group for expressions of interest in taking on the role of chair to be submitted to him by Friday, 22nd of Febuary.

**Action:** **All members** to consider taking on the role of group chair and email **EOC**.

## 4. Digitisation Training

**CD** introduced a draft syllabus for the proposed digitisation event, covering three broad streams: 1) Digital Photography/Digitisation Basics; 2) Digital Content - Copyright and legal issues; 3) Digital Projects - Options and Outreach. The group discussed the extent to which the first stream (Digital Photography/Digitisation Basics) should be a practical/hands-on session as opposed to a tutorial format. **COD** emphasised the need for a hands-on, practical approach, although this may mean limiting the number of people who could attend. The group discussed the fact that since different equipment in use in various institutions, it can be difficult to present a hands-on demonstration that will be immediately applicable for participants when they return to use their own institution's equipment. **P. Corrigan** made the point that the three streams would potential appeal to different audiences. The group agreed that the first stream (Digital Photography/Digitisation Basics) could be offered as a one-day event with the emphasis on: A) emphasising common processes and gotchas in digital imaging which would be applicable to all equipment; B) the broader digitisation workflow/steps around metadata preparation, conservation assessment, movement of material, digital imaging, ingest. A second event, not necessarily offered the following day, could combine the other strands. Attendees could opt in to either day or both.

**Action:** **CD** and **COD** to revise the syllabus to reflect the group's discussion.
**Action:** **CD** to contact UL ANLTC representative to discuss the proposed syllabus and ANLTC involvement.

## 5. HEANET Lightening Talk - Feedback

**COD** informed the group that **P. Clarke's** lightening talk relating to the group's survey of digital repository systems had been very well received at the HEANET Conference. A recording and slides of the presentation are available on the [HEANET site](http://www.heanet.ie/conferences/2015/talks/id/198).

**EOC** informed the group that he had contacted all survey respondents, who were not members of the group, to seek permission to publish their responses.

## 6. Archival Collections: potential for knowledge sharing around processing and access provision for digitised archival collections

**COD** initiated a discussion about the particular challenges faced in digitising large archival collections. Each member of the group described the extent to which their digitisation process deals with archival collections. A common theme was the tension between the administrative/technical need to have item-level records for the management of discrete digital objects and the traditional archival approach of describing large volumes of material (e.g. folders, series) as a single unit, all of which is set against increased demands for online access to larger volumes of material in shorter timeframes. **P. Corrigan** highlighted the fact that this tension is likely to continue with the technical trend towards adopting even more granular descriptions for conformance to emerging Linked Data standards. The ways in which the relationships between parts of a collection (collection-level, sub-collection-level, item-level) are modelled within digital asset management systems also has considerable implications for interoperability of resources across repositories. In most cases, organisations were importing or re-using descriptive metadata from existing systems, e.g. Axiell Calm, in order to batch generate the records for digitised content. Selectively describing and digitising subsets of collections to item-level, while leaving other sections of the collections described at a less granular level, was also an approach being taken. The group agreed that this was a rich vein in terms of potential knowledge sharing and possible collaboration and should be discussed again at other meetings.

## 7. Open Repositories

**EOC** informed the group that, due to the cancellation of the December call, no work had been carried out on this topic. **AH** informed the group that the initial call for papers was due by early February.

**Action:** **All** to follow up regarding potential involvement by email in advance of the February call

## 8. AOB & Next meeting

**AH** will organise the next conference call to talk place on Thursday, 4th of February at 11:00am
