# Minutes of the Meeting of the CONUL Digital Infrastructure and Services Sub-Committee, 1st of October, 2015, 11.00 a.m., National Library of Ireland

**Present:** Crónán Ó Doibhlin (**COD**), UCC; Eoghan Ó Carragáin (**EOC**), NLI; Peter Clarke (**P. Clarke**), UCD; Val Payne (**VP**), NUIM; Arlene Healy (**AH**), TCD; Caleb Dervan (**CD**), UL;

Apologies: Deirdre Wildy (**DW**), QUB; Peter Corrigan (**P. Corrigan**), NUIG.

## 1. Minutes of previous meeting

Minutes were approved

## 2. Matters Arising

CONUL Draft Strategy: **CÓD** reported that he was a member of the CONUL Strategy Group and that a final draft document had been sent to the CONUL Heads for comment.

## 3. Training 2016

The group discussed some options for a training course that could follow from the very successful DPTP event in 2015.  The intention is to hold another event in 2016.

**VP** drew the group’s attention to a programme being offered by Eneclann. This could perhaps be run by CONUL members? It was agreed that the content was appropriate especially in the areas of Data management and Copyright Law.  **CD** suggested JISC courses as an option or model. An Foras Feasa Digitisation in a Day was also considered although thought to have practical limitations in terms of the detail required. **AH** mentioned Tim O’keefe at TCD as someone who could contribute part of a programme in the area of Digital Photography, and the DRI who perhaps could be persuaded to contribute advice of copyright/legal issues to a programme. **PC** also drew attention to the UCD LibGuide on Digital Projects devised by Julia Barrett. It was agreed that there was enough expertise within CONUL to co-ordinate a course/programme with contributions from various CONUL members.

**Action:** **CÓD** and **CD** agreed to take the lead in co-ordinating an event to take place before May/June 2016.
**Action:** **AH** would check the possibility of the DRI contributing, and also speak with Tim O’Keefe.
**Action:** **VP** would speak with An Foras Feasa about any specific aspects that they might be in a position to offer.

## 4. Survey & HEAnet Lightening Talk

**CD** has put the survey on Github and it has now also been updated. The group (PC, EÓC, AH) will present the survey findings at HEAnet 2015.
**Action:**  **PC**, **AH** and **EÓC** are to meet and publish findings after HEAnet

## 5. Report & Recommendations

The group discussed possible approaches to a community event. **EÓC** proposed the “Co-ordinated Sprint” concept as a very useful and practical format.  A hackaday was also one option considered.  **PC** introduced some discussion on this.  It was agreed that the community event is to be held in early 2016.

**Action:** ALL The format and date of this event will be decided at the next Group meeting.
**Action:** **CÓD** to check any overlaps or possible synergies with other CONUL Groups (Research & Copyright).

## 6. AOB

Open Repositories Conference:  **AH** spoke about the Open Repositories Conference which will be held in TCD in 2016 http://or2016.net/.

**Action:**  The Group agreed to discuss a possible CONUL contribution at the next meeting.

The DCDC RLUK event 15 October was also noted:  http://www.rluk.ac.uk/dcdc15/.
Next meeting (by Skype) 11.00am Thurs 1 November.


