_Draft_ _Notes_

**Notes of the Meeting of the CONUL Digitisation Group**

**Monday 19th** **August** **2013, 11.00 – 1.00 p.m.**

**Henry Jones room, TCD**

**Present:** Caleb Dervan (UL) (Chair), Arlene Healy (TCD), Eoghan Ó Carragáin (NLI), John B. Howard, (UCD), Peter Corrigan (NUIG).

**Apologies:**), Crónán Ó Doibhlin (UCC), Deirdre Wildy (QUB),), Ann Wrigley (DIT), Meadhbh Murphy (RCSI), Petra Schnabel (RIA), Yvonne Desmond (DIT).

		**1.** **Lightning Talks:**  One lightning-talk took place, describing UCD Library’s Digital Services, presented by John Howard, Librarian at UCD.

John’s talk covered the background and context to UCD Library’s Digital service, before proceeding to detail their application stack and the infrastructure employed by the service. He then outlined the scope and content of material handled by the service, proceeding to treat the data model employed at UCD. John then discussed the services’ dissemination strategy before winding-up with the short term-development objectives planned by the unit for the coming year.

**Background and context**

**Origins**

-- The service origins can be found in the PRTLI III funded 2005-2009 Irish Virtual Research Library & Archive (IVRLA). This project was in collaboration with UCD researchers in the humanities, social sciences & UCD cultural heritage repositories and it was driven by their interests and concerns.
-- They started out running Fedora 2.x as the underlying architecture for digital asset management, with Solr for text search, the Mulgara triplestore handling RDF. The focus was on delivery to web clients and Apache Wicket was used for the creation of the Web front end.
-- Staff (9 FTE) were originally non-core

 **Current**

-- A core service of UCD Library
-- Staff (3 FTE) in a new Library service division

The service deals mainly with Cultural Heritage and Data.

**General collections**

- Archival collections
- Printed matter (pamphlets, journals)
- Graphical materials
- Printed cartography
- Podcasts (archive)


**Data**

- Qualitative data (surveys of individuals, objects, resource collections)
- Quantitative data (ISSDA metadata)
- Geospatial data
-- Shapefile, LiDAR, raster data
-- Geographic KnowledgeBase (postgreSQL/postGIS)

**Current projects**

- Desmond FitzGerald Photos
- Kevin Barry Papers
- Oram Papers
- 'Scapes (Hastings)
- OSi raster maps
- HIBERNIA
- Dublin Dockland survey data

Transportation systems survey data

  **In the Queue**

- Art History Slides
- Urban folklore interviews
- Classical Museum numismatics
- GPEP historic maps
- Iberian Short Title Catalog
- 
-- Focus continues on academic outputs & cultural heritage, but now includes research data, geospatial data/information. 
-- New focus on preservation best practices
-- Emphasis less on web, more on provision of API’s for third party consumption
-- Fedora 3.5 ; solr; MySQL ; mulgara ; postgreSQL/postGIS

**UCD DRS/Digital Library Application Stack**

Data Storage is local (Duraspace is being evaluated)

The repository layer is now Fedora 3.5

Service Layer

The UCD Service Layer comprises facilities for text search via Solr and gsearch, facilities for image handling based on djakota, a planned semantic search facility based on a semantic database with workflow and data processing utilities served via postrgresSQL and PostgresGIS

API layer

The UCD API layer is mediated via Apache and has endpoints for OpenSearch, the IIIP image API, Linked data and a geospatial API. A SPARQL endpoint is planned. The geospatial API provides access to a knowledgebase of Irish Physical Geography, with mapped areas divided into geotagged polygons with support for named entities, POI’s and Geonames. This geo API supports methods for identifying boundaries and also supports location based services, and acts as a service broker for 3rd party services like the facilities offered by the Pleiades graph of ancient places

Webapp Layer

Utilises Bootstrap for layout and styling, with extensive Javascript resources including the IIP JavaScript image viewer, jquery and the leafletJS for map manipulation.

**Development Priorities at UCD** **Library Digital Services** **for 2013-2014**

- General infrastructure
- Workflow restructuring
- Security/Access management enhancements
- API development and public release
- fedora 4.X migration
- More with hydra
- Data infrastructure
- ORCiD, DataCite implementation
- UCD Data Hub (portal)
- SPARQL endpoint for Digital Library Linked Data
- Linked Data dissemination of information from geospatial knowledge base
- Improvements to backup services, offsite replication
- Policy etc.
- Complete DSA processes for ISSDA, UCD

**2.** **Institutional Audit/Survey Document**

Eoghan in composing the draft survey instrument has split the survey into two questionnaires. One deals with _Digitisation Equipment and Expertise_ the other deals with _Infrastructure and Services_. It was felt thatthis approach best maps what we want to capture with who would likely be making the response to the survey.

Eoghan took the meeting through the initial drafts of the two questionnaires.

No changes were proposed to the _Digitisation Equipment and Expertise questionnaire.

John Howard proposed that we capture the _status quo_ with respect to storage as provided by third parties, to inform any requirements gathering by HEAnet for the provision of such a service. Peter Corrigan proposed we capture similar details concerning hosting facilities – whether performed locally or via third party.

The Data Seal of Approval was acknowledged as a very valuable assessment

Orchid Id’s because of the usefulness and potential were marked as candidates for inclusion under section 3.2.7 on globally persistent ID’s

John recommended that because of the functional difference in how one can use CrossRef  DOI’s and DataCite DOI’s, they should be distinguished in the enumerated list within 3.2.7

John also recommended a general question on the utilisation of common profiles for metadata schemas, with a view to determining the feasibility of the group gravitating, where possible, towards utilising a common vocabulary.

A further suggestion from John was the inclusion of a question on utilisation of Preservation tools like JHOVE, FITS etc. This question could be included in the Preservation Planning section 2.5.

A question on the utilisation of workflow management systems, as mooted by Caleb/John was agreed.

A question from Caleb dealing with Rights Access and redaction mechanisms was also agreed

Peter and Arlene agreed to trial the draft questionnaire with Digital Services staff at their respective institutions.

A Planning Document that covers the Group’s activities for the next 3 years is due in mid-October and the survey will inform that plan.

The Survey will be finalised by mid-September and available to our next meeting on 16rd September

Survey will be circulated by 2nd September

A conference on Digital Services, not necessarily standalone, but in conjunction with the other Conul Groups was seen as a valuable method to obtain progress across the Conul Libraries and something to be discussed at a further meeting.

**Next Meeting:**	**11.00 – 1.00 p.m., Monday** **16th **Sept** **2013, Room to be confirmed**

PC

6.09.2013