_Draft Notes_

Notes of the Meeting of the Conul Digital Infrastructure and Services Sub-committee, 14th October, 2013, 11.00-1.00p.m. Board Room, NLI.

Present: Caleb Dervan (UL) (Chair),  (NUIG),  (DIT), Eoghan Ó Carragáin (NLI), John B. Howard (UCD), Crónán Ó Doibhlin (UCC),  (RIA)

Apologies: Arlene Healy (TCD),   (DIT)

1. Minutes of previous meeting

Minutes were approved.

2. Apologies

3. Lightening Talks on individual library developments

The following lightening talks took place:

  _,_ 

described how, despite limited resources, the RIA has gradually improved its approach to digitisation. While initial digitisation was carried out to meet particular needs such as reprographic orders, a more systematic approach to digitising entire collections has been taken in recent years. Successive collections have been digitised as funds were available with the result that the Drawings (approximately 13,500 files) and Photographs (approximately 19,000 files) collections have largely been digitised and progress has been made on the Manuscripts collections.

Digitised images are stored on the RIA network, with thumbnail images available through the online catalogue. In terms of carrying out the imaging, the RIA has used external photographers, and have also had a very positive experience using the services of DRIS in TCD.

The RIA have also had positive discussions with the DRI and hope to work further with them in the future.

_U.C.C., Crónán Ó Doibhlin_

Traditionally, many digital projects within the college were managed by the Electronic Publishing Unit of U.C.C.'s Computer Centre. The library is currently undergoing a major organisational restructure and merger with the Computer Centre. The new reporting structure, and new Strategic and Operational Plans , will clarify the types of digital initiatives the library will be involved with going forward, and is an opportunity to bring different skillsets into the team to facilitate further development of its Repository and data management services.

The library uses DSpace as its Institutional Repository. The system is supported by one IR Manager who is responsible both for the technical support and marketing of the service. Library staff have faced challenges in getting support for Open Access policy from supervisors and the Academic Council; additional work is required to educate users. A pilot project for deposit of eTheses resulted in over 150 theses being deposited in the last year. The pilot was very successful in certain pockets. There has been a lot of interest among academic staff and researchers in the potential of bibliometrics, and library staff see this as an area of opportunity.

In terms of digitisation, library staff have digitised selections from the Boole Papers (approximately 400 documents have been made available online, with images linked to an EAD description), some Wax Cylinder recordings, and a selection of the 200 Gaelic Manuscripts in its collections some of which had never microfilmed. The library has collaborated with ISOS to digitise the Gaelic Manuscripts, including the Book of Lismore.

In terms of Digital Humanities projects, the library worked with the DHO on training sessions and also carried a survey in 2011 which identified 65 digital projects on campus, mostly in the Humanities and most of which had dealt with the Computer Centre in terms of infrastructural support. The library has supported the recently established Digital Arts and Humanities (DAH) Project by identifying five key archival collections which have been fully listed and broken down into blocks that are suitable to be worked on by DAH students/projects. Library collections have been used to facilitate TEI projects & teaching, and expose students to the practical aspects of digitisation projects and working with physical objects.

4. ORCiD/ DataCite

John Howard presented an introduction to the ORCiD and DataCite initiatives (presentation attached), discussing the benefits, stakeholders, and subscription models of each. ORCiDs provide unique researcher identifiers and a transparent method of linking research activities and outputs to these identifiers. Whereas CrossRef is well-known for providing DOIs for publications, DataCite aims to do the same for data (broadly defined). The initiatives have been particularly welcomed by Higher Education Authorities and funding bodies, and services like FundRef have incorporated ORCID ids and funder information in CrossRef metadata records (as part of this, Elsiver has made its vocabulary available which includes entries for Irish funding bodies). John also gave examples from UCD's experience of working with particularly complex architectural datasets, which led to a broader discussion on the challenges of data archiving and the idea of a national data repository.

5. Review of Survey Questions/ Discussion

Caleb informed the group that the surveys were not quite ready to circulate. The intention is to complete the first survey (on Digitisation Equipment & Expertise) before the next meeting, and to have the second survey ready for final review at the next meeting.

6. October Reporting to CONUL

7. AOB

Caleb informed the group of the possibility of a CONUL meeting in December to bring members of the different groups together.

Caleb suggested that it may be useful to compile a list of events relevant to the group's activity. Crónán agreed that this would be useful as it can be difficult to keep track of relevant events.

8. Date of Next Meeting 

Monday, the 11th of November, in the Henry Jones Room at TCD from 11AM to 1PM.