# Minutes of the Meeting of the Conul Digital Infrastructure and Services Sub-Committee, 4th of November, 2014, 11.00 a.m., via Skype .

**Present:** Eoghan Ó Carragáin (**EOC**), NLI; Peter Clarke (**P. Clarke**), UCD; Peter Corrigan (**P. Corrigan**), NUIG; Caleb Dervan, (**CD**), UL; Val Payne (**VP**), NUIM.

Apologies: Crónán Ó Doibhlin (**COD**), UCC; Yvonne Desmond (**YD**), DIT;  Arlene Healy (**AH**), TCD; Deirdre Wildy (**DW**), QUB.

## Minutes of Previous Meeting

Minutes were approved.

## Apologies

Noted

## Membership changes

**EOC** informed the group that, regrettably, Yvonne Desmond (**YD**) has to step down from the group due to other commitments. Yvonne is consulting with her colleagues about an alternative DIT representative & will be in touch with **EOC**. **EOC** asked about the possibility of contacting other CONUL members who were not represented on the group.

**Action:** **EOC** to follow up with Colette McKenna, the group champion, about the names put forward from the various CONUL members when the group was being formed, and whether new members can be invited.

## Subcommittee Surveys – Update and next steps

### Digitisation Survey
The survey has yet to be completed by the NLI and UCD.

* **EOC** said that the survey is being worked on by the NLI’s digitisation manager and should be completed in advance of the December meeting
* **P. Clarke** said that the survey was being worked on by the appropriate staff member at UCD and will be submitted soon.

**Action:** **EOC** and **P. Clarke** to follow up with their colleagues
**Action:** **AH** will provide DCU, Ulster and RCSI with a link to the digitization survey

### Digital Repository Survey

**EOC** updated the group that he and **AH** had met as planned to get the structure of the survey into Survey Monkey. **AH** has since completed the Survey Monkey version and circulated it to **P. Clarke** and **YD** for testing as agreed at the last meeting. **YD** has sent her feedback. **P. Clarke** has reviewed and tested the survey and will send feedback to **AH** soon. **P. Clarke** said that the survey looked to be in good shape overall, and didn’t foresee major changes. **VP** had also reviewed the Google Doc version of the survey. **VP** didn’t see any issues with the survey, but reiterated that completing the survey would likely need input from various staff members. The group discussed the fact that the survey would need to be completed for each repository or IR system in use by an organisation. For example, NUIM has an ePrints based Institutional Repository as well as a Fedora/Hydra-based repository. The group agreed that filling in the survey for each system was necessary and should be possible. The group also agreed that a deadline of between 4 to 8 weeks should be sufficient to complete the survey

**Action:** **P. Clarke** to send feedback to **AH**
**Acton:** **AH** and **EOC** to incorporate feedback with a view to circulating the Survey Monkey version to the group for the December meeting
**Action:** Group to agree start and end dates for issuing the survey at the December meeting


## Website & Github Update

**CD** informed the group that he has created a Github account/organisation as discussed at the last meeting. The next step is to investigate the best way to upload existing content (i.e. Markdown v.s. Word), and to circulate some information to group about how to get started with Github.

**YD** updated the CONUL website with the list of members & terms of reference. Since **YD** is leaving the group, she has arranged for her DIT colleague, Fiachra Mangan, to help update  the website. Since the majority of content will be on Github, **EOC** will make changes to the CONUL site for now and contact Fiachra Mangan for assistance if necessary.

**Action:** **CD** to upload existing content & circulate getting started information to the group

## Presentations for 2015 (DRI, European Library)

**EOC** informed the group that Sandra Collins welcomed the invitation to attend the 8th of January meeting. She will update the group on DRI developments and discuss possible areas of collaboration or knowledge sharing. **EOC** informed the group that, as agreed at the last meeting,  he has raised the possibility of having a DRI representative on the group with Colette McKenna.

**Action:** **EOC** to follow up re a presentation from the European Library to the work of the Subcommittee in April.

## Community Event (a.k.a. Unconference/Hack day)
**P. Clarke** has received suggested names from **EOC** and **AH**. **VP** had sent a list of NUIM staff to **P. Corrigan**, who will forward to **P. Clarke** along with a list of NUIG staff members. **P. Clarke** said we should have a good list of names to get started with and he will give some thought about next steps in advance of the December meeting

**Action:** Remaining committee members will send an inclusive of interested staff to **P. Clarke**.
**Action:** Group to discuss proposed next steps at December meeting

## AOB

**CD** will follow up with ANLTC on the two courses proposed courses in May 2014: one focused on basic digitization skills for librarians and the second proposal was for the Digital Preservation Training Programme.

**Action:** **CD** to request update from ANLTC

*Date of Next Meeting:* The next meeting is scheduled for the 4th of December at 11am via Skype
