_Draft Notes_

Notes of the Meeting of the Conul Digital Infrastructure and Services Sub-Committee, 9th of April, 2014, 11.00-1.00p.m. Henry Jones room, Trinity College Dublin.

Present: Caleb Dervan (UL) (Chair), Peter Corrigan (NUIG), Yvonne Desmond (DIT), Arlene Healy (TCD),  Val Payne (NUIM), Deirdre Wildy (QUB)

Apologies: Eoghan Ó Carragáin (NLI), John B. Howard (UCD), Crónán Ó Doibhlin (UCC),  (RIA)

1. Minutes of previous meeting

Minutes were approved.

2. Apologies

3. Sub-Committee Surveys – Update

The results and analysis of the two surveys will contribute to the Sub-Committees report to CONUL. The Survey of Digitisation Equipment and Expertise was launched on November 25th and closed on December 4th2013. 13 of the targeted institutions accessed the survey but only nine completed the survey.

**Action: Arlene to reactivate the survey and Caleb to recirculate to the targeted institutions who did not complete the survey.**

**Deadline: End of April 2014**

The Sub-Committee will now focus on finalising and launching the survey on Digital of Infrastructures & Services

**Action: All members of the** **Sub-Committee** **to review survey content and sign off by end of April (see latest version of survey content on Google Site)**

**Action: Arlene agreed to populate the survey on Survey Monkey by May 5th2014. They survey will be tested by all members of theSub-Committee** **and feedback** **provided** **to Arlene and Caleb by May 9th 2014.**  The survey will be launched on Monday, May 12th and will remain open for two weeks (till Friday May 23rdat 6:00pm). The survey link and e-mail will be circulated to allSub-Committeemembers who will forward the link to one colleague in the institution with overall responsibility for this area. Similar to the first survey on equipment and expertise, thisstaff member will complete and submit one survey on behalf of the institution, seeking contributions from other staff members where required.   

**Action: Caleb to consider how to include CONUL institutions not represented on the** **Sub-Committee, for e.g. DCU, University of Ulster, RCSI.**


4. Report to CONUL

The group were reminded that the recommendations captured in the report of the CONUL Task & Finish Group on Digital Content Services (2012) should form the basis of this Sub-Committees final report. Our Terms of Reference are based on these recommendations.

**Action: Caleb to add CONUL Task & Finish Group on Digital Content Services (2012) and the** **Sub-CommitteeTerms of Reference to the Google site. Caleb also to circulate soft copies of these documents to the committee members.**

CONUL Report Next Steps:

1. Complete Analysis of Surveys
2. Develop report Framework

**Action: Peter to head up a small group from within the** **Sub-Committee** **to review the 2012 report to identify key tasks which are actionable** **(to be completed in advance of the next meeting, 25th** **June 2014).**

The group reviewed the recommendations captured in the report of the CONUL Task & Finish Group on Digital Content Services to identify which fall within the remit of the work of the Sub-Committee. Below is a list of the recommendations with annotations.

- Participate in processes related to development of additional national infrastructures to support Open Access to research publications and data (Sub-Committee should collaborate with the Research Support Task & Finish Group)
- align with IUA libraries in support of Open Access and Open Access infrastructures, particularly RIAN; (Sub-Committee should collaborate with the Research Support Task & Finish Group)
- coordinate outreach and educational initiatives targeting the research community Open Access policies and infrastructures; (this action falls outside the scope of the Sub-Committee and responsibility lies solely with the Research Support Task & Finish Group)
- provide, identify, or advocate for mechanisms to foster development of skills and expertise in the digital services domain;
- foster means of improving communications among staff at member libraries who work in the area of digital content services, including CONUL Sub-Committee activities as well as conferences and other means of catalyzing synergistic activities; (this recommendation should be expanded to include establishing communication with the Digital Repository of Ireland Project Team)
- act as coordinator for activities pertinent to digital content services, including potential development of centralised digitisation facilities, identification of preferred vendors, and articulation of common and best practices in the instantiation of digital collections;
- foster coordination in development of digital collections to enable articulation of national strategies and to avoid duplicative activities;
- CONUL should cooperative with other stakeholders in the cultural heritage and research sectors to enable contributions to _Europeana_, _OpenAIRE_, and potentially other international access infrastructures; this includes identification of a national aggregation mechanism on behalf of _Europeana_ and interoperability of _RIAN_ with _OpenAIRE;_
- foster development of skills and expertise in the domain of digital preservation, leveraging existing resources and fostering development of new ones;
- conduct a survey of CONUL member libraries to identify at a higher level of granularity the range of digital services, technologies and technical resources, skills, etc., currently supported, and maintain a CONUL registry of these resources. 

**All of the remaining recommendations fall within the remit of the** **Sub-Committee**

**The group agreed the CONUL** **Sub-Committee** **on** **Digital Infrastructure and Services Terms of Reference need to be revised and edited. Action: Caleb**

5. Training via ANLTC for 2015

Caleb reported that the ANLTC are carrying out a training needs survey. TheSub-Committee need to identify training needs in relation to our remit.  

Action: Caleb to notify ANLTC of the following training needs:

- Digitisation
- Data Management
- Digital Preservation
1. Sub-Committee Website

Yvonne agreed to assist Caleb with populating the Sub-Committee section on the CONUL website.

**Action: Caleb to contact** **Cathal** **McCauley to request website (Wordpress) login**

6. AOB
7. The group discussed the overlap and potential for collaboration with the following CONUL Groups:
- Sub-Committee on Collections, Preservation & Conservation
- Research Support Task & Finish Group
8. Unconference: Group to consider scheduling a one day event in late November.

Action: Caleb to discuss with Eoghan development of a proposal regarding the event for submission to CONUL for consideration by them.

9. HEAnet Conference – members of the Sub-Committee to consider attending in early November
10. Date of Next Meeting

June 25th 11:00-14:00 (lunch to be provided)

Main agenda items:

In advance of the meeting the group will have reviewed the analysis of the two surveys (to be provided by Caleb) and supplied feedback. At the meeting theanalysis of both surveys will be agreed and signed off.

Report to be delivered by the group set up to identify key tasks which are actionable from the document produced by the CONUL Task & Finish Group on Digital Content Services (2012).

An invitation to attend the meeting for an item on the discussion of the shared objectives of the groups will be issued to the Chair of the Sub-Committee on Collections, Preservation & Conservation.