# Minutes of the Meeting of the Conul Digital Infrastructure and Services Sub-Committee, 24th of July, 2015 at 11:30, National Library of Ireland

**Present:** Eoghan Ó Carragáin (**EOC**), NLI; Peter Clarke (**P. Clarke**), UCD; Val Payne (**VP**), NUIM; Arlene Healy (**AH**), TCD; Caleb Dervan (**CD**), UL;

Apologies:  Crónán Ó Doibhlin (**COD**), UCC; Deirdre Wildy (**DW**), QUB; Peter Corrigan (**P. Corrigan**), NUIG.

## 1. Minutes of previous meeting

Minutes were approved

## 2. Apologies

Noted

## 3. Feedback on CONUL Draft Strategy

The group reviewed the draft CONUL Strategy document.

**Action:** **EOC** to upload a copy of the document to Google Docs to capture additional feedback.


## 4. Planning: Survey analysis & report writing

The group discussed how to proceed in terms of disseminating the survey results and making broader recommendations to CONUL. **EOC** informed the group that he had spoken to Colette McKenna, the group champion, about the expectataions of the CONUL Board. Ms. McKenna recommended publishing the survey results as deliverables in their own right, and said that CONUL would welcome additional recommendations from the group particularly in regards to training needs, international best practice, and collaboration both within CONUL and the wider community of practice.

In relation to the Digitisation survey carried out in 2013, the group felt that the results were likely to be out-dated and therefore should not be included in any new recommendations or analysis. **AH** and **CD** suggested exporting the raw data from Survey Monkey in order to make it more generally available for future reference.

In relation to the more recent survey on Digital Repoistory systems, **AH**, **P. Clarke** and **EOC** agreed to carry out an initial analysis of the results in order to a) report the findings at a HEANET lightening talk, and b) inform the broader recommendations of the group. The group agreed that the raw data should be exported from Survey Monkey and published via Github following the HEANET.

As a starting point for drafting broader recommendations, **EOC** suggested creating a Google Document with headings based on the group's terms of refernce and the CONUL Draft Strategy as a means to capture the group's initial ideas.

**Action:** **CD** to export the responses and data from the original Digitisation Survey from Survey Monkey and upload to Github
**Action:** **AH**, **P. Clarke** and **EOC** to meet to begin analysis of the Digital Repository Survey
**ACtion:** **EOC** to create a Google Document to begin capturing recommendation topics. Everyone to review and contribute.

## 5. Planning: Training 2016

The group discussed training topics for 2016. A course on Digitisation, to include higher-level project planning considerations, has been discussed on several occassions by the group. Following from the success of the DPTP Digital Preservation Training, our approach should be to identify existing courses where possible and collaborate with ANLTC. **VP** offered to research existing courses on Digitisation.

**Action:** **VP** to investigate available courses relating to Digitisation.

## 5. Dates for next meetings (Skype and face-to-face)
The next face-to-face meeting is scheduled for Thursday, 1st of October at the National Library.

## 6. AOB
None

