# Minutes of the Meeting of the Conul Digital Infrastructure and Services Sub-Committee, 5th of March, 2015, 11.00 a.m., via Skype

**Present:** Caleb Dervan (**CD**), UL; Eoghan Ó Carragáin (**EOC**), NLI; Peter Corrigan (**P. Corrigan**), NUIG; Val Payne (**VP**), NUIM; Arlene Healy (**AH**), TCD; Crónán Ó Doibhlin (**COD**), UCC;

Apologies:  Peter Clarke (**P. Clarke**), UCD; Deirdre Wildy (**DW**), QUB.

## 1. Minutes of previous meeting

Minutes were approved

## 2. Apologies

Noted

## 3. DPTP Training

EOC updated the group on the following points:

* Dates confirmed for Wednesday, April 29th - Friday, 1st May
* Venue confirmed as the Seminar Room, NLI

**VP** asked whether the previous estimate of €432 was still valid. Unfortunately, due to recent currency fluctuations the cost per person has increased to €464. **EOC** has asked **Ellen Breen** if ANLTC has any funds to subsidise the increase.

The group agreed to offer the default
“Practitioner course” offered by DPTP rather than asking for custom modules.

In terms of refreshments, the group suggested: morning tea & coffee (@ €2.50/person) each of the three days and lunch (@ €6.50) only on the first day.

**AH** asked about inviting DRI members who would not otherwise be affiliated with CONUL libraries. **P. Corrigan** agreed this was a good idea, but stressed that preference should be given to CONUL members. **EOC** will discuss with **Ellen Breen** to see how ANLTC normally handle situations like this.

**Action:** **EOC** to liaise with **Ellen Breen** & keep the group updated


## 4. Repository Survey

**AH** updated the group on final modifications to the survey based on feedback for **P. Clarke**. **AH** also highlighted two questions she added to cover funding models and strategic planning. **VP** suggested adding an option for “Under development” to Q 7. The group approved all changes. **VP** and **P. Corrigan** had spotted a few typos and other minor issues, which they will forward to **AH**.

**EOC** asked whether a closing date of the end of March was still realistic. The group agreed to push the completion date to the end of April.

**AH** offered to circulate the final survey to other conul members not represented on the group. In the covering email she will emphasise the need to complete the survey for each repository

**Action:** **VP** & **P. Corrigan** to send minor changes to **AH**.
**Action:**  **AH** to circulate survey for completion by end April

## 5. Community Event

**EOC** updated the group on the following points:

* **P. Clarke** has drafted an excellent summary of how “Hack Days” and “unconferences”  relate to our group. He will circulate this soon.
* It is unlikely that an event will take place before the end of the summer or early Autumn

**CD** pointed the group to [ThatCamp](http://thatcamp.org/) as a possible model for this event.

**Action:** **P. Clarke** to circulate document for discussion at the next meeting

## 6. Moving to Github

**CD** updated the group on the Github account, following on from the documentation he circulated. **EOC** said he would use Github from now on when circulating Minutes and Agenda. **P. Corrigan** pointed out that the finer details of Github can have a steep learning curve, but fully agreed that it was a good fit for our group & a worthwhile experiment.

**Action:** **EOC** to circulate future Agenda & Minutes via Github
**Action:** **CD** and **EOC** to ensure old documents are migrated from Google Drive

## 7. AOB

**AH** asked whether anyone was attending OR 2015. **CD** hopes to attend. **AH** informed the group that TCDHPC have been successful in their bid to hose OR 2016.

