# Minutes of the Meeting of the Conul Digital Infrastructure and Services Sub-Committee, 29th of April, 2015, 13.00 a.m., National Library of Ireland

**Present:** Eoghan Ó Carragáin (**EOC**), NLI; Peter Clarke (**P. Clarke**), UCD; Val Payne (**VP**), NUIM; Arlene Healy (**AH**), TCD; Crónán Ó Doibhlin (**COD**), UCC;

Apologies:  Caleb Dervan (**CD**), UL;  Deirdre Wildy (**DW**), QUB; Peter Corrigan (**P. Corrigan**), NUIG.

## 1. Minutes of previous meeting

Minutes were approved

## 2. Apologies

Noted

## 3. Repository Survey - Update

**AH** updated the group that the following responses have been submitted:

* Dublin Institute of Technology: 1 repository
* National Library of Ireland: 1 repository
* Queen's University Belfast: 3 repositories
* University of Limerick: 1 respository

**AH** noted that there had been some confusion about the PDF document circulated along with the link to Survey Monkey, as some responsdents had tried to complete the survey using the PDF rather than the web interface. **AH** also noted that three CONUL members have yet to be notified (the RCSI, the RIA and the University of Ulster), as she is waiting for **EOC** to provide relevant contact information. **EOC** informed the group that he has emailed the Librarian of each of the three institutions asking for a contact person for a) completing hte current survey b) participating in the group going forward.

**AH** said that she had sent reminders to her colleagues, and expected two survey responses to be submitted by the deadline or the following week.

**COD** said the UCC survey was very close to completion and should be sumitted by the deadline or shorly afterward.

**P. Clarke** said that UCD would certainly submit a response for their Digital Libary system by the deadline, and the a second response for an institutional repository should be submitted the following week.

**VP** said that NUIM would also be submitting two responses: a) a complete response for the institutional repository system and b) a partial resopnse for the digital libary system which is currently under active development.

**Action:** EOC to forward any response from RCSI, RIA, UU to **AH**
**Action:** Everyone to remind colleagues of the deadline
**Action:** AH and EOC to monitor responses, and circulate when appropriate


## 4. Moving to Github - Update

**EOC** informed that group that all minutes and agenda have been migrated to [Github](https://github.com/CONULDigitalServices/Documentation), thanks to the work of **CD**. The repository is publically visible by default. Anyone who wishes to have write access to the repository should contact **CD**.

## 5. Community Event

 **P. Clarke** described some of the potential obstacles in getting this event off the ground. In particular, we need to be careful about branding the meeting since large organisations such as CONUL can be perceived as too formal by potential participants. **P. Clarke** also highlighted that there is a large overlap between the interest of this group and groups in related fields such as the Digital Humanities. **P. Clarke** and **CD** had discussed combining the proposed event with a ThatCamp event, but noted that this would involve changing plans from a one-day event to a multi-day event. **COD** noted that a ThatCamp is already scheduled for later in the year.

**EOC** acknowledged these obstacles but thought it is still worth pursuing a one-day event even as a means of identifying a better meeting format going forward. The fact that the group meets regularly should help with event planning.

**COD** said the event could be useful in bridging the communication gap between technologists working in CONUL libraries and ICT professionals working in the wider university. This has been a challenge in UCC. HEANet overlaps in terms of participants and content, but a less formal pre-conference or "birds of a feather" event has previoulsy been discussed as a gap. Targetting this group of participants (employees of CONUL libraries and their parent insitutions) might give a narrower focus for a one-day event, rather than expanding the event to include the broader field of Digital Humanities.

**AH** and **COD** suggested that, having completed the survey on digital repositories, we could use the findings as the basis of a one-day event: a presentation of findings followed by short presentations from particpants.

**P. Clarke** suggested that he circulate the summary of “Hack Days” and “unconferences” to inform further discussion.

**Action:** **P. Clarke** to circulate document for discussion at the next meeting

## 5. Action planning for Q3 and Q4 2015
**EOC** said that now that the repository survey was in hand, the group needed to start thinking about writing up its findings and recommendations. He suggested devoting the next face-to-face meeting in July to planning exactly what form the report/recommendations should take and how the work of producing it should be distributed amongst the group. In the meantime, **EOC** will contact Colette McKenna, the group champion to ask for guidance in terms of CONUL's expectations in terms of the extent of any report and the scope of recommendations. The group agreed that this seemed like a reasonable time-frame.

**AH** asked about revisiting the responses from the earlier survey on digitisation, building on the analysis already produced by **CD** for the CONUL colloquiem. **EOC** said he expected the results of both surveys to be included in the group's report.

**COD** suggested there could be other uses for the survey results, for example they could be presented at HEANet. The group agreed.

There was some discussion about dates for the next set of meetings. The Skype call scheduled for June clashes with the CONUL Conference. Also, the DPASSH conference is taking place June 25th-26th.

**Action:** EOC to contact Colette McKenna, group champion, to ask for more specifics in terms of the scope of CONUL's expectations.
**Action:** EOC to circulate a Doodle poll to establish date of next F2F meeting.

## 6. AOB
None
