# Minutes of the Meeting of the Conul Digital Infrastructure and Services Sub-Committee, 8th of January, 2015, 11.00 a.m., National Library of Ireland

**Present:** Caleb Dervan (**CD**), UL; Eoghan Ó Carragáin (**EOC**), NLI; Peter Clarke (**P. Clarke**), Peter Corrigan (**P. Corrigan**), NUIG; Val Payne (**VP**), NUIM.

Apologies: Arlene Healy (**AH**), TCD; Crónán Ó Doibhlin (**COD**), UCC; Deirdre Wildy (**DW**), QUB.

## 1.  Minutes of previous meeting
The minutes were approved

## 2. Apologies
Noted

## 3. DPTP Training
The group discussed the information provided by DPTP.  There was a strong consensus that it should be possible attract the maximum number of 24 participants from CONUL members.  The group also felt the 3 day course geared at intermediate skill and knowledge level was preferable to a 2 day introductory course.  The group discussed whether to contract DPTP for one or two tutors given the following approximate costs:

*1 Tutor:* (£3750 * 1.2 * 1.28)/24 = approx. 240€/person for all 3 days
*2 Tutors:* (£6750 * 1.2 * 1.28)/24 = approx. 432€/person for all 3 days

**CD** informed the group that two tutors were present the last time the course was run and that it was beneficial. The group felt that the second tutor would add to the learning experience, and that it was worth the extra cost provided the full complement of 24 participants attend.

**VP** asked about how places on the course should be allocated. It was agreed that places should be filled on a first come, first served basis.

**P. Corrigan** and **VP** expressed a preference for April, and the group agreed that there should be sufficient lead-time.

**VP** acknowledge Ellen Breen’s generous offer to host the event in DCU, but pointed out that this would make the event more difficult to get to compared to city centre venue. **EOC** offered to look into hosting the event at the NLI, and will ask **AH** whether TCD would be an option.

**Action:** **EOC** to check availability in the NLI in April.
**Action:** **EOC** to liaise with Ellen Breen of ANLTC.


## 4. Repository Survey
**P. Clarke** has submitted feedback which will be incorporated by **AH**. The group agreed to aim for the end of March as a submission date if the survey is circulated before the February meeting.

**Action:** **AH** & **EOC** to circulate survey.


## 5. Community Event
**P. Clarke** updated the group on possible approaches to a community event. He has received a list of names from all group members. While a hackathon over more than one day is desirable, **P. Clarke** suggested starting with a one-day event of informal lightning talks, demos, and discussion. This event would allow the wider group of participants to gauge interest in follow-up events with a view to forming a community of digital library practitioners. **P. Corrigan** asked about the knowledge and software development expertise needed for participation. **P. Clarke** said that development skills are not requirement and that one of the benefits of these events is cross-disciplinary collaboration and knowledge sharing.  **P. Clarke** referred the group to the [“Hack Day Manifesto”](www.hackdaymanifesto.com) as an example of how to approach a Hack Day event. **P. Clarke** offered to give the event more thought and to circulate a more detailed proposal to the group in advance of the next meeting.

**Action:** **P. Clarke** to circulate proposal to the group in advance of the next meeting

## 6. AOB
**P. Corrigan** asked were any of the Terms of Reference not covered by actions planned for 2015. The group reviewed the Terms of Reference, and agreed that most aspect were covered by: completion of the repository survey, DPTP training, a community event, presentation from DRI, and a report to CONUL. As discussed at previous meetings, more could be done to communicate with related CONUL Groups, and we should consider inviting representatives from other groups to attend face-to-face meetings in the second hand of the year. **EOC** updated the group that he had contacted Alastair Dunning of the European Library about presenting their new services to the group. The European Library is keen to engage CONUL; a presentation to the CONUL board is planned for early in 2015, but a separate presentation to the Digital Infrastructure and Services group may be useful at a later date. The group discussed other possible presentations or events: **CD** suggested the Digital Public Library of America (DPLA) and British Library Labs as projects of interest to the group.

**CD** asked **EOC** whether he wished to proceed with using Github for group documentation. **EOC** confirmed that Github should be used, and that he had been using Drive out of convenience for draft minutes and agenda. **CD** offered to transfer approved minutes to Github.

## 7. Presentation from Sandra Collins, DRI
Sandra Collins (**SC**) of the DRI joined the group at 12:00. **EOC** gave a brief overview of the work of the Digital Infrastructure and Services Sub-Committee. **SC** gave a 25 minute presentation on the current developments at the DRI, touching on many aspects including: collaborative projects (Inspiring Ireland, Irish Record Linkage, DRI-INSIGHT RTÉ, Linked Logainm), approaches to content licensing, sustainability issues, Education and Outreach activities, and technical approaches to open source and open data development, content aggregation and repository federation. **SC** informed the group that the DRI were optimistic about securing funding for an additional 5 years based on 70% state funding and 30% generated by project funding or revenue generated by DRI.

**SC** answered several specific questions from group members on various issues, including: challenges related to the reluctance of content holders to deposit material; challenges of hiring and keeping technical talent; challenges of gaining institutional support for open-source licensing.
There was some discussion of the potential for collaboration and knowledge sharing. In particular, **SC** felt there was a lot of scope to collaborate on Education and Outreach events, such as the planned DPTP training and Hack Day/Community event. **SC** also welcomed the fact that the DISC group is carrying out survey’s relating to digitization and digital repository development, as this will complement similar work carried out by DRI.
**EOC** thanked **SC** for an excellent and informative presentation and discussion.
