# Minutes of the Meeting of the Conul Digital Infrastructure and Services Sub-Committee, 4th of December, 2014, 11.00 a.m., via Skype.

**Present:** Eoghan Ó Carragáin (**EOC**), NLI; Peter Corrigan (**P. Corrigan**), NUIG; Arlene Healy (**AH**), TCD; Val Payne (**VP**), NUIM.

Apologies: Peter Clarke (**P. Clarke**), UCD; Caleb Dervan, (**CD**), UL; Crónán Ó Doibhlin (**COD**), UCC; Deirdre Wildy (**DW**), QUB.

## Minutes of Previous Meeting

Minutes were approved.

## Apologies

Noted

## Repository Survey - Update & discussion of start dates

**AH** and **EOC** gave an update and the group discussed next steps. **AH** will incorporate feedback from **P. Clarke** when received & will circulate the link to Survey Monkey by 19th December. **AH** noted that gaps remain in some areas of the survey, particularly in relation to higher-level, administrative considerations such as funding streams and impact. We agreed to try to fill these gaps in person during the January meeting in order to finalise the survey. We discussed a start/end date for completion of the survey & agreed a closing date of 28th of February would be reasonable, provided the final version is released shortly after the January 8th meeting.

**Action:** **P. Clarke** to send final feedback to **AH**  
**Action:** **AH** to incorporate feedback & circulate link by 19th December  
**Action:** Group to review on January 8th with a view to filling in remaining gaps & confirming start/end dates  

## Community Event (a.k.a. Unconference/Hack Day) - discussion of next steps

This item was deferred until January. **P. Corrigan** reiterated the need for such an event, so it is important we make progress at the January meeting.

**Action:** Remaining committee members will send an inclusive of interested staff to **P. Clarke**.  
**Action:** Group to discuss proposed next steps at January meeting  

## Presentation by Sandra Collins at the January meeting

It was suggested that we invite Sandra to join the group at 12:00 rather than  11:00, in order to give the group time to discuss the Survey and Hack Day. **EOC** said he expected the meeting to follow this format: introductions; an overview of the work of our Group to be given by **EOC**; an update/presentation from Sandra Collins on DRI activity and plans; a discussion of potential areas for collaboration (e.g. Hack Day) and knowledge sharing (e.g. survey results). **AH** noted that the DRI has announced a conference on Digital Preservation for June 2015 to coincide with the launch of their repository, & will circulate details to the group.

**Action:** **AH** to circulate details of DRI conference to the group  
**Action:** **EOC** to confirm time & format with Sandra Collins  

## Website & Github - Update
**EOC** informed the group that **CD** has completed the setup the Conul Github Organisation and uploaded content. **CD** has also identified some good introductions to using Github which he will circulate to the group

**Action:** **CD** to circulate links to the Group

## ANLTC Training - Update
**EOC** informed the group that **CD** had followed up with ANLTC to query the status of the training proposals & to introduce **EOC**. Ellen Breen has since responded to say the proposals had been discussed at a recent ANTLC meeting & that she was happy to host one of the proposed events in DCU. Ellen has arranged to call **EOC** on Monday, 8th December as a follow-up. **EOC** asked whether the proposed Digital Preservation training would conflict with the DRI conference on Digital Presentation. **AH** said they should be complementary, as the training would focus more on hands-on techniques. **VP** expressed a preference for having the training in the Spring of 2015, if possible.

**Action:** **EOC** to discuss possibilities with Ellen Breen of ANLTC and update the group

## AOB

**EOC** updated the group that he had been in touch with Colette McKenna, the group champion, about vacancies on the group. Colette will contact the institutions  (DCU, RCSI, RIA, DIT) to ask for representatives. **EOC** will then follow-up directly with proposed representatives. **AH** noted that there was an outstanding action to circulate the Digitisation Survey to these organisations. **AH** had drafted and email but doesn’t have contact information for all institutions. We agreed it made sense to defer circulating the Digitisation Survey until we had a list of new representatives.

**Action:** **AH** to send draft email to **EOC**; **EOC** to circulate once he has a list of new representatives

**EOC** also asked Colette McKenna about the possibility of inviting a DRI representative to join the group. Colette is going to raise this at the CONUL meeting on 4th December.

**P. Corrigan** & **AH** commented that the Skype meetings were working out well: even if the whole group cannot always attend, they help to keep things moving forward.


*Date of Next Meeting:* The next meeting is scheduled for the 8th of January at 11am in the Trustees’ Room at the NLI
