# Notes of the Meeting of the Conul Digital Infrastructure and Services Sub-Committee, 2nd of October, 2014, 11.00-1.00p.m. Trustees Room, National Library of Ireland.

**Present:** Eoghan Ó Carragáin (**EOC**), NLI; Peter Clarke (**P. Clarke**), UCD; Peter Corrigan (**P. Corrigan**), NUIG; Caleb Dervan, (**CD**), UL; Yvonne Desmond (**YD**), DIT;  Arlene Healy (**AH**), TCD;  Val Payne (**VP**), NUIM; Deirdre Wildy (**DW**), QUB.

**Apologies:** Crónán Ó Doibhlin (COD), UCC

## Minutes of Previous Meeting

Minutes were approved.

## Apologies

Noted

## Change of Subcommittee Chair

Eoghan Ó Carragáin (**EOC**) accepted the Chair of the subcommittee and Arlene Healy (**AH**) was confirmed as the Deputy Chair. Additionally, it was confirmed that **Peter Clarke** would replace **John Howard** as the UCD subcommittee member.

## Subcommittee Surveys – Update and next steps

The completion of the two surveys is still outstanding although some data analysis was presented at the CONUL Colloquium in December 2013. The first of the two surveys on digitization practices and equipment has been completed with the exception of 3 institutions that **EOC** has contacted. Additionally, there are three CONUL members who are currently not represented on the committee who have not completed the survey, DCU, the University of Ulster and RCSI.

The second survey on digital infrastructure and services exists on the Subcommittee’s  Google documents and the plan of action is to bring survey forward. The two surveys will be analyzed together and used to form a roadmap/reporting document to be presented to CONUL.

**Action:** **AH** will provide DCU, Ulster and RCSI with a link to the digitization survey
**Action:** **AH** and **EOC** to meet on 8th Oct. to review populating of survey in survey monkey
**Action:** **P. Clarke** and **YD** will road test the second survey

## Subcommittee Website Update

**YD** was provided with login details and will be updating the Subcommittee site to reflect the current name, membership access to Subcommittee documentation (see agenda item 7 below)

## ANLTC Update

**CD** provided two proposed courses to the ANLTC in May 2014, one focused on basic digitization skills for librarians and the second proposal was for the Digital Preservation Training Programme.

**Action:** **CD** to request update from ANLTC

## Skype meetings/ document sharing

The group discussed the potential of meeting virtually, particularly to accommodate those travelling from a distance. **EOC** proposed to schedule 4 in-person meetings per year and then intertwine the intervening months with Skype calls. The Subcommittee agreed that monthly meetings would occur on the 1st Thursday of the month via Skype and that the January meeting would be in person.

There was a discussion around determining the best platform for documents and document sharing. Google Documents is currently used by the Subcommittee to share and collaborate on some subcommittee documentation. It was proposed that github be used for meeting material such as meeting minutes and agendas and that Google documents be used for collaborative editing of documents.

**Action:** **CD** to create git repo and share link with **YD** for inclusion on CONUL site; **CD** to act as coordinator for github.

## Review of Terms of Reference and identification of related tasks

There were two actions from previous meeting of 2nd April to review the ToR and make them actionable. **EOC** created a document comparing the ToR to recommendations of the 2012 IUALG Digital Services Task and Finish group, work to date and possible future actions. The Subcommittee reviewed the document point by point.

The group discussed the role of group with regard to Open Access. It was suggested that there was more of a focus on infrastructure rather than advocacy for the Subcommittee and that there ought to be a stress on future developments occurring collaboratively rather than independently. It was agreed that since the group focuses to some extent on software development and standards that this emphasis should be made on the CONUL website.

There was a discussion around how the group might facilitate communication and a community of practice in digital services. Hack days, code4lib-style community, and library hack day camps were mooted as possible events. There was a sense that the group should initiate rather than organize any such events. A possible starting point might be to get a list of interested staff. **EOC** listed other possible areas in the ToR comparison document.

**Action:** Each committee member will send an inclusive of interested staff to **P. Clarke**.

The group discussed its interaction and relation to other national and international groups, particularly the DRI, the European Library and Europeana. The group agreed to arrange presentations from the DRI and the European Library, and possibly a presentation from the Irish Manuscript Commission later next year.

**Action:** **EOC** will approach Sandra Collins of the DRI to do a presentation in January and possibly put a member of the DRI on the group (pending CONUL approval).

**Action:** **EOC** to check with Colette McKenna about including a DRI representative on the group.

**Action:** **EOC** will organize a presentation from the European Library to the work of the Subcommittee in April.

The group agreed that there was a definite utility in having a joint meeting with the CONUL Research Support Group. It was noted that there would be a future action to arrange meetings with the chairs of Research Support, Copyright and the Teaching and Learning groups pending update of website, the ToR, etc.

It was proposed that bullet point 5 in the ToR be rewritten to reflect a longer term commitment and the permanent nature of the Subcommittee. The group explored the position of the Subcommittee with relation to the digitization community, noted the different levels of work, etc. at the different institutions and the common synergies that might enable digitization work for smaller institutions. It was agreed that the group would share the findings of the survey and make appropriate recommendations in the report, encourage collaboration.

With regard to the sixth bullet point pertaining to tracking work underway, the progress was noted. However,  it was recognized that there needs to be an emphasis from the group on impact assessment and statistics.

**Action:** **EOC**/**AH** to add a question to the survey to capture actions around this area.

It was agreed that bullet point 7, pertaining to Open Access, be removed as it is more pertinent to the work of the Research and Support Group.

The possibility of organizing a **"Birds of a Feather"** event at the upcoming HEANET conference was discussed. Several group members are attending some or all of HEANET. **P. Clarke** highlighted the need to increase CONUL and library representation at HEANET. It was agreed that this type of meeting would be relevant to several items on the Terms of Reference relating to increased communication and collaboration. There was some discussion of the difficulty in organizing a meeting at such short notice. However, it may be possible to organize an informal meeting of group members.

**Action:** **P. Clarke** will coordinate with **COD** to suggest an informal meeting of sub-committee group members at the HEANET conference.

## AOB
*Date of Next Meeting: To be confirmed.
